Update the health check section with mTLS for 1.1 (#3738)
istio/istio.io: content/help/faq/security/k8s-health-checks.md

title: How can I use Kubernetes liveness and readiness for pod health checks when mutual TLS is enabled?
weight: 50
---

> If mutual TLS is enabled, http and tcp health checks from the kubelet will not work since the kubelet does not have Istio-issued certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If mutual TLS is enabled, HTTP and TCP health checks from the kubelet will not work without modification, since the kubelet does not have Istio-issued certificates.
```

As of the Istio 1.1 release, we have several options to solve this issue.

> You can use probe rewrite to rewrites the liveness/readiness probe such that the probe request will redirected to application directly. And you can also use a separate port for health checks and enable mutual TLS only on the regular service port. Please refer to [Health Checking of Istio Services](/help/ops/setup/app-health-check/#mutual-tls-is-enabled) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. You can use probe rewrite to rewrite the liveness/readiness probe, such that the probe request will be redirected to application directly.
1. You can also use a separate port for health checks and enable mutual TLS only on the regular service port. Please refer to [Health Checking of Istio Services](/help/ops/setup/app-health-check/#mutual-tls-is-enabled) for more information.
```

Author: Both approaches are mentioned in the reference, that's why i added them in the same paragraph.

> Moreover, we support the [`PERMISSIVE` mode](/docs/tasks/security/mtls-migration) for Istio services so they can accept both http and mutual TLS traffic when this mode is turned on. This can solve the health checking issue. Please keep in mind that mutual TLS is not enforced since others can communicate with the service with http traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Istio supports the [`PERMISSIVE` mode](/docs/tasks/security/mtls-migration) for Istio services so they can accept both HTTP and mutual TLS traffic when this mode is turned on. Please keep in mind that mutual TLS is not enforced since others can communicate with the service with HTTP traffic.
```

> Another workaround is to use a [liveness command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/#define-a-liveness-command)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Using a [liveness command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/#define-a-liveness-command)
```

> Another workaround is to use a [liveness command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/#define-a-liveness-command)

Reviewer 2: Can we move this cmd option as second one? Since this is better for for people caring security?

Author: This one has it's own limitation too, i.e., customer may/could not be able to install curl to their services. And we documented the limitation of the permissive option as well, so i would prefer we keep the order.

Reviewer 2: IMO, the limitation of commands available are less important than the security implications. After some conversations and some cases study, I feel, people coming to this page, should be those who really want to get both mTLS protection and liveness prober working at the same time. `PERMISSIVE` is more of migration and not an option targeted for these audiences above.

Author: It's not all about importance, it's also related to feasibility/overhead. In some container, you simply can't install curl. And for permissive, we already mentioned the limitation. No big deal tho, feel free to update later if you feel it's necessary.

title: How can I use Kubernetes liveness and readiness for pod health checks when mutual TLS is enabled?
weight: 50
---

If mutual TLS is enabled, HTTP and TCP health checks from the kubelet will not work without modification, since the kubelet does not have Istio-issued certificates.

> As of the Istio 1.1 release, we have several options to solve this issue.

Reviewer 3: As of Istio 1.1,

Author: done

> 1.  Using probe rewrite to rewrite the liveness/readiness probe such that the probe request will redirected to application directly. Please refer to [Probe Rewrite](/help/ops/setup/app-health-check/#probe-rewrite) for more information.

Reviewer 3: will be redirected to the application

And maybe application -> workload?

Author: done

> 1.  Using probe rewrite to rewrites the liveness/readiness probe such that the probe request will redirected to application directly. Please refer to [Probe Rewrite](/help/ops/setup/app-health-check/#probe-rewrite) for more information.

Reviewer 4: `to rewrites` -> `to rewrite`

> 1.  Using probe rewrite to rewrites the liveness/readiness probe such that the probe request will redirected to application directly. Please refer to [Probe Rewrite](/help/ops/setup/app-health-check/#probe-rewrite) for more information.

Reviewer 4: this should probably be an unordered list - IOW change `1.` to `-`.

Author: It's an ordered list, the first one is most recommended way.

> 1.  Using a separate port for health checks and enable mutual TLS only on the regular service port. Please refer to [Health Checking of Istio Services](/help/ops/setup/app-health-check/#separate-port) for more information.

Reviewer 3: enable -> enabling

Author: done

> 1.  Using the [`PERMISSIVE` mode](/docs/tasks/security/mtls-migration) for Istio services so they can accept both HTTP and mutual TLS traffic when this mode is turned on. Please keep in mind that mutual TLS is not enforced since others can communicate with the service with HTTP traffic.

Reviewer 5: seems it is irrelevant to recommend use permissive mode here because that is the default anyway and it is not enforcing mTLS.

Author: I prefer we call it out explicitly since our default setting may change.

Reviewer 3: Remove "when this mode is turned on"

Author: done

> 1.  Using a [liveness command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/#define-a-liveness-command)

Reviewer 5: i think we should give recommendations as to when to use what vs dumping all options to users.  this will frustrate users more.

Reviewer 5: I'd say this option is deprecated?  why would someone use this when there is the first 2 options>

Author: Not really, all the methods have limitations.

Reviewer 3: Needs a period.

Author: it's connected with "for health checks"
